---
layout: blogpost
tags: [weeknote]
title: "Week #37: Between Seasons and Sounds"
subtitle: ""
---

Last week felt especially meaningful to me. Since Tuesday was my birthday, my mind was filled with reflections on the past and thoughts about the future. Therefore, I slowed down and turned inward, giving myself space to reflect. I am grateful for this moment in my life, and I hope it lasts, allowing me to share more with people.

**Autumn**

The last days of summer in Munich are now over. The rains have started, and the weather will gradually get colder. I started cycling last summer, and since I enjoy it so much, I want to continue through the cold weather. So, I bought winter cycling gear. I'm already starting to feel that this hobby requires constant investment, but I'm pushing through and hoping to make it one of my lifelong hobbies.

**Apple Event**

One of the most important events last week was the Apple Event. Around three million people watched the live stream, a significant number for a pre-recorded event. I didn’t watch it live, only catching the highlights afterward. I feel that some Apple events haven’t included developments as significant as in previous years. I don’t underestimate the effort behind these improvements and their gradual progress, yet perhaps these events could be held less frequently to showcase more engaging technologies and features.

**Music**

While catching up with all of these, I listened to Anouar Brahem's latest album, [After the Last Sky](https://music.youtube.com/playlist?list=OLAK5uy_nhT9eVoxFVckIzsRRf2H7ZDckE2fqd250&si=3nIHClBH7YYZkRNU), several times. Each time I listen, I feel the depth in the music. One piece shares the album's name and is inspired by a poem by Mahmoud Darvish: "Where should the birds fly, after the last sky?". Thinking about this and listening again, I find myself reflecting deeply.