---
layout: blogpost
tags: [weeknote]
title: "Week #52: Recap Weeknotes"
subtitle: ""
---

This week was calm and relaxing. I’ve rested, thought about what I’ve done this year, read books, watched movies, and so on.

I started writing these notes to stay motivated and keep a record of what I’m working on. Looking back, the biggest thing this year has been regaining my ability to concentrate. It’s the foundation that allowed me to return to reading regularly, cycling, and also writing these weeknotes.

### Routines

I’ve become more intentional about how I spend my time. Having a better morning routine helped me start the day with more energy and use my time better. I also started questioning how I spend time on my Mac. When I don’t have a specific purpose, I usually choose something more meaningful instead.

Getting a gravel bike was the best thing about the summer. I crossed the 500 km mark and found that even as the weather turned cold, it was my favorite way to clear my mind. My running also progressed from 5K to 10K runs, and I’m looking forward to pushing that distance further.

### The Craft

My approach to side projects evolved toward sustainability. I realized a project shouldn't become a burden, it should be a learning opportunity with realistic expectations. I made a significant progress on two projects and also started several small projects for the purpose of learning and experimentation.

Deepening my knowledge of Accessibility and the HIG was a rewarding challenge. It changed how I view user experience.

I revisited some Swift frameworks. I believe it is going to be more important to have better knowledge of them since we need to review more AI-generated code.

I also explored AI assistants, from Copilot to Antigravity, finding them most useful for repetitive tasks like localizations while I enjoy the creative logic.

### Everyday Life

These notes also captured the small, meaningful moments:

- finally brewing a perfect espresso
- experimenting with cooking different dishes and desserts
- following the stories of roasters
- and being moved by good music

These notes have been a valuable mirror for the year, especially over the last few months. I’m glad I started.
