---
layout: blogpost
title: "Week #45: Watching Wes Anderson’s Latest"
subtitle: ""
---

It was a busy week at work, but I managed to stick to my routine. I went running twice and played in a football game. I only made time to watch a movie, and I’d like to share my thoughts on it.

I came across a movie by Wes Anderson by chance. Tt was _The Phoenician Scheme_. I had been following Anderson's cinema for a long time; his films like _The Darjeeling Limited_, _Moonrise Kingdom_, _Fantastic Mr. Fox_,  _Hotel Chevalier_ and _The Grand Budapest Hotel_ caught my attention in terms of cast, cinematography, mise-en-scène, and narration. However, with The French Dispatch and his most recent short movies, I felt he had lost some narrative depth and flow. 

_The Phoenician Scheme_ is also visually impressive. The cinematography, mise-en-scène, and sense of humor reflect Anderson's style. 

However, the story lacked depth and a good narrative flow. It felt like distinct stories were brought together and disconnected from one another.

At the same time, another thing sparked my curiosity about the author: the subject of the movie and characters like Zero Moustafa in The Grand Budapest Hotel reflect the Auteur's personal and cultural references. 

The movie's dedication to Fouad Mikhael Maalouf particularly caught my attention. I haven’t researched this extensively, but Amin Maalouf and Ibrahim Maalouf are Lebanese, so it seems likely that Fouad Mikhael Maalouf, Wes Anderson’s father-in-law, also has roots in this region. This provides a suggestive clue about the personal and cultural influences that may inform Anderson’s storytelling.

In short, while The Phoenician Scheme offers a powerful visual experience, its surface-level narrative and lack of narrative flow leave it behind Anderson's earlier films. Nevertheless, I find the film valuable for the clues it offers into Anderson's aesthetic and cultural references.