---
layout: blogpost
title: "Week #48: Accessible Side Project"
subtitle: ""
---

I spent most of my spare time on my side project this week, and even postponed some other plans after receiving encouraging feedback that motivated me to keep going. Developing a side project and preparing it for production is always challenging, but this time I experimented with a new approach, and it turned out to work quite well. In the past, I was only paying attention to presentation and meaningful learning but this time I also considered long term sustainability. These three rules worked really well together. 

A side project should remain sustainable with minimal effort and time, regardless of whether it will ever reach production. Otherwise, it can easily become a burden and negatively affect your quality of life. After a full day of work, rest, household tasks, groceries, events, sports, and time with your partner, the remaining time is very short. Even when you try to prioritize the project above many of these things. This is why a side project that begins during a free weekend or a quiet evening often faces challenges later on, when the everyday life is busy again.

The first rule is to avoid turning the project into a burden by setting unrealistic expectations. Even if I know I could complete something quickly, planning for it to take more time helps avoiding pressure. This way, I work on it only when I want to sit down and do something.

Another important aspect for me is making the project presentable. Keeping this in mind guides how I shape the project, prioritize features, and plan the overall direction. In the end, I want to share the final result with others, see whether it helps at least a few people, and understand the impact it creates. That sense of usefulness becomes an additional source of motivation.

Last but not least, a side project should be a learning opportunity. I always try to work with frameworks I haven’t used before or haven’t practiced enough. I usually set the minimum requirement to the latest version so I can fully take advantage of new APIs. I apply the architectural and design principles I know, and learn new practices. Learning something new is, after all, one of the main reasons for having a side project in the first place.

In this project, I focused on three main areas: adding accessibility features, writing UI and integration tests, and creating a simple interface that follows Apple’s Human Interface Guidelines. I also used the native [Translation](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/translation/) framework, which allowed me to make the app fully offline, and integrated SwiftData.

Unfortunately, many apps, even those only targeting only the Apple App Store, don’t include accessibility features. They are often postponed to later versions, which frequently never happen. I wanted to deepen my knowledge and practice accessibility in this project, so I focused on it. I read [Apple’s documentation](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/accessibility), which is very clear and helpful, and also explored practical [examples](https://www.hackingwithswift.com/books/ios-swiftui/accessibility-introduction). Beyond being necessary, working on accessibility is also fun.

It was a productive and rewarding week. I spent most of my spare time finalizing my side project, focusing on accessibility and testing. Everything went very well, and I made good progress while enjoying the process. I hope to share more detailed updates on this in the coming weeks.