---
layout: blogpost
title: "Week #38: Tracking, Workshops, and Gravel Rides"
subtitle: ""
---

I previously mentioned that I had taken a break from my side projects because I was feeling a bit burned out. Then, I came across this short but useful article: [Make a List](https://joshs.bearblog.dev/make-a-list/) In short, it suggests that creating to-do lists for your goals and tracking your progress might help you achieve them. I actually tried this before on my side projects: I decided which project to work on and what to do; I broke the tasks down into small pieces and started progressing step by step. But in the end, I still felt exhausted. Sure, the project wasn’t the only reason for this. Therefore, I would need a different solution that does not bind me to these projects when I’m already overwhelmed with other things.

I've now decided to take a slightly different approach. I'll only do these tasks when I sit down at the computer, and I'll keep a daily log every time I open it. For example: “Today I planned the onboarding screen,” “I created the data model,” or “Today I researched action cameras.” So, actually, I don't abandon them, but if I already lack energy, I don’t do them. If I have it, then I log my progress.

There's another important reason for keeping a computer log: I think it will help me use my time more efficiently because it will allow me to question how I spend my time. This is also really important because when I don’t question how I plan my time, I end up spending too much of it online.

**Workshops**

Last week, a two-day workshop was held at my company and we had a great time. I believe that the best way to improve team spirit within the company is to hold events such as workshops and hackathons frequently. Regardless of the topic, working as a team with people outside my own group, communicating closely with them, and seeing new things are factors that increase my motivation and happiness at work.

A hackathon was held a few months ago, and we designed autonomous agents together. We worked on [Screeps](https://screeps.com/), a game where you control a colony by writing scripts. The topic of this workshop was **AI**. Of course, everyone has different experiences, knowledge, and opinions; however, these types of events are also very useful in terms of creating a common knowledge ground. In other words, they create a common sense on a topic for any discussion.

I had never used an AI CLI tool before. In this workshop, we worked on some ready repositories with **Claude Code** on the first day, and we developed our own web project from scratch on the second day. Writing a web project, using different AI models and modes such as “plan mode” was a new experience for me. At the same time, experiencing this as a team, interpreting and discussing what we saw together was also very beneficial.

**500+ km on gravel**

When I returned from my trip yesterday, I realized that I had already exceeded 500 km in total on my gravel rides. I was pleased that my enthusiasm before buying the bike matched what I did afterwards. Every week—mostly on weekends—I try to go on at least one ride between 50 and 80 km. During this time, I started developing a much healthier lifestyle routine and had a great time.

When buying the bike, I was uncertain about choosing between a gravel and a road bike. I thought road bikes required more maintenance and had more limited use, while gravel bikes were more durable on rough roads and therefore more comfortable. I also liked the idea of being able to pass through beautiful parks on my routes.

After riding only on road routes for a long time, one day I ventured onto a gravel route and regretted it: my black bike was covered in dust by the end of the ride. Now I mostly stick to road routes; I only go on gravel routes when the ground is not full of dust.